To whomever may be reviewing this, I wanted to write a little something for your consideration when looking over my application.

My name is Nick Montesino.  I recently turned 27.

I've been trying to be a Software Engineer for quite some time.  I've had minor successes, usually followed by major setbacks.  I know that the prerequisites asked me to be either:
- A Bootcamp Graduate
- A Self-Taught Developer
or
- An Engineer with a 2+ year career gap

In some ways, I'm all three.  I graduated from Flatiron School's Dumbo, Brooklyn Campus in December of 2019.  Back then, I was living with family.  Shortly (very shortly) after finding my first job in tech, the Pandemic imposed a national lockdown which forcibly caused many professions to adopt a work-from-home approach, which was hard for me in the beginning, especially with the distractions and stress my household presented to me.  Ultimately, that first job would be cut short as a result.

Later that year (2020), I had moved with family, albeit less family members this time.  Throughout my stay there, I was torn between pursuing this intended career path of mine and the pressure of needing to contribute financially to the household.  I wanted nothing more than to find a way for those goals to be one in the same.  I did get lucky enough to land an internship in 2021, a role in which I felt a lot of growth in an environment that was very open and willing to help foster my desire to become a better engineer.  Unfortunately, though they wanted to extend my internship before talking about being brought on as a Junior Software Engineer, much of the Senior Engineering talent had left, so they had lost the bandwidth to retain more Junior talent.

In 2022, I got an opportunity to study to become an Android Developer with a company based in Philadelphia.  Thinking I'd be able to come home with an ability to contribute while pursuing Software Engineering, I headed for Philly, where I would be for the next four months.  There were some red flags that I should have seen prior to leaving, but by the time I had been there for three weeks, and they became extremely apparent, personal issues with my family quickly meant that I would not be going back home.

When I returned to New Jersey in late August, I stayed with my brother for a few weeks to save money and look for a place to move into, which I did on October 1st.  The red flags from that company did eventually catch up with me, and I lost my income, while having not been in my new home for very long.  Somehow, I managed to stay afloat just enough to keep going.  I worked for several months as an IT Technician at a major hospital system in my state, but the stress of the job, the low pay, the lack of relevant training within the field, and the two-hour commute each way via public transportation proved exhausting.  Since April, I have been working as a server in restaurants.  The first one, a small diner in a tight-knit, well-to-do area, was a significant hurdle for me.  My living conditions prevented me from being able to store, prepare, or cook my own food, so my diet was not ideal, and the weight gain greatly exacerbated my chronic back pain, which I still have.  I fought through it, however, and the physical nature of the job helped me shed a lot of the weight that my diet had forced back onto me, improving the pain over time, though not quite fixing it (still working on it, though, I'll figure it out eventually).  On top of that, being employed by a small business owner could sometimes create an extremely hostile environment.  But I was determined to keep pushing, and I became *very* good at my job.  So I decided to apply to another restaurant, where I would get better value for my time, and have more time so that I could once again pursue what I really want to do with my life: code.  The transition was rocky, and for several weeks, I did work both jobs, partly to find my footing with the new restaurant and still make rent, and partly because my previous employer asked me to help out.  It was only within the past two weeks that I decided to wholeheartedly focus on my new job, realizing that splitting my attention was not the best way to grow and excel in my new role, and that doing favors for my old job was not leaving me with any time or energy to help myself.  I'm still on somewhat shaky ground financially, as this is still a bit of an adjustment, but I'm determined to make sure that my decision is a step forward that works better for me in the long run by allowing me to do what I need to for myself.  Plus, when I humble myself and lean into the difficulty, I become better for it, so why not keep doing that?  

My original plan was to find my rhythm at work, and use my newfound free time to structure myself, get organized, and progress in the areas most important to me, with the major goal being to rebuild my portfolio from the ground up.  As soon as I decided that, like clockwork, someone pointed out to me that the window for Microsoft LEAP Apprenticeships was about to open.  Due to my work schedule, and the need to take as many shifts as I'm allowed, I was not able to attend the webinars until the final one on September 25th, when the window opened.  During that, it was emphasized how much my GitHub and LinkedIn would be reviewed.  I knew I hadn't been coding.  Living month to month is exhausting, let alone trying desperately to move somewhere where I could actually be receiving the appropriate value for what I'm paying (i.e. cooking for myself since eating out for every meal is expensive and unhealthy, doing laundry, having a window that actually lets light into the room, ventilation of any kind).  My career goals have taken a back seat to survival for the time being, but I will make it work no matter how this goes, though an apprenticeship would be a big help for sure.  I decided to whip up a quick project and connect it to an API just to get some commits in, but I stopped.  I stopped because rent was coming due (today), and I had to work as much as possible to even be close.  With today being my only day off, I was starting to see myself creating a rushed mess.  I don't like messy code.  With how quickly this industry moves, and with how much it takes to keep this skillset sharp, I once again have to humble myself, and dust off the cobwebs before I feel proud of anything I will make.

As I write this, I have been living where I currently am for a year to the day, my first time living alone.  The past year has been difficult financially and emotionally, but fruitful in forcing me to grow in ways I needed to.  I don't think I would change anything, however painful certain periods of time were for me.  I don't know if this will help my chances at all, or if anyone will even read this in the first place.  But, I need to know that even if, in the end, I didn't get to do what I really wanted to do, I didn't let the uncertainty stop me from trying.  Even though telling my story up to this point is nowhere near as good as coding something, I did not want to half-ass any app, no matter how small, and so with the deadline for this application approaching, this will have to do for now, and it's better than nothing.  This apprenticeship would allow me to pay my bills while doing what I intended to do on my own anyway, but with added mentorship and guidance from a company whose history is deeply intertwined with the industry I've been trying to break into, a synonymy which would help me along quicker than doing it by myself.  I completely understand if it gets me nowhere, in which case, I'll go forward with my original intentions, and do it on my own, and understanding that patience will be key here.  I just wanted to know that I didn't do absolutely nothing at all.  

I hope this adds some context to what feels to me like an otherwise sparse resume.  If anyone does bother reading all of this, I appreciate you taking the time, regardless of the results.  Thank you.